# Data Science Application in Sustainable Finance
## Predicting Green Bond Issuance: An explanable AI Approach 
Thesis submitted in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of master of science in data science & society at the school of humanities and digital sciences of Tilburg University
In this thesis, our target variable is the volume of green bond issuance.
As for the predictors, a list of features inspired by the empirical research studies and based on the data available in the financial database is drawn, taking bond-specific features, the firm’s characteristics, and macroeconomic indicators into account. Corporate financial data are publicly available for wide stakeholder
use via renowned financial database Refinitiv Datastream.
This thesis uses four algorithms, including Ri, KNR, XGBR, and LGBR for the prediction problem as competing machine learning models. We opt for Optuna as the main technique for model development and evaluation. All models considered, including the baseline LR model, are trained and tuned based on a nested cross-validation approach  of four inner folds and five outer folds. The objective function is defined to minimize the average validation score to find the best model for each inner fold. The resulting model is further trained on the whole outer training fold to estimate its true generalization ability on the test fold. The research project aims to contrast the model performances in terms of predictive power among different approaches while acknowledging the possible trade-off between performance and interpretability. In order to better explain the chosen model output, Shapley values are employed to identify the marginal effect of each feature on the resulting  output of the best model.
